

1. header.php
2. footer.php
3. sidebar.php

index.php
style.css


Common WordPress template files

index.php (classic theme) or index.html (block theme)
    The main template file. It is required in all themes.

style.css
    The main stylesheet. It is required in all themes and contains the information header for your theme.

rtl.css
    The right-to-left stylesheet is included automatically if the website language’s text direction is right-to-left.

front-page.php (classic theme) or front-page.html (block theme)
    The front page template is always used as the site front page if it exists, regardless of what settings on Admin > Settings > Reading.

home.php (classic theme) or home.html (block theme)
    The home page template is the front page by default. If you do not set WordPress to use a static front page, this template is used to show latest posts.

singular.php (classic theme) or singular.html (block theme)
    The singular template is used for posts when single.php is not found, or for pages when page.php are not found. If singular.php is not found, index.php is used.

single.php (classic theme) or single.html (block theme)
    The single post template is used when a visitor requests a single post.

single-{post-type}.php (classic theme) or single-{post-type}.html (block theme)
    The single post template used when a visitor requests a single post from a custom post type. For example, single-book.php would be used for displaying single posts from a custom post type named book.

archive-{post-type}.php (classic theme) or archive-{post-type}.html (block theme)
    The archive post type template is used when visitors request a custom post type archive. For example, archive-books.php would be used for displaying an archive of posts from the custom post type named books. The archive template file is used if the archive-{post-type} template is not present.

page.php (classic theme) or page.html (block theme)
    The page template is used when visitors request individual pages, which are a built-in template.

page-{slug}.php (classic theme) or archive-{post-type}.html (block theme)
    The page slug template is used when visitors request a specific page, for example one with the “about” slug (page-about.php).

category.php (classic theme) or category.html (block theme)
    The category template is used when visitors request posts by category.

tag.php (classic theme) or tag.html (block theme)
    The tag template is used when visitors request posts by tag.

taxonomy.php (classic theme) or taxonomy.html (block theme)
    The taxonomy term template is used when a visitor requests a term in a custom taxonomy.

author.php (classic theme) or author.html (block theme)
    The author page template is used whenever a visitor loads an author page.

date.php (classic theme) or date.html (block theme)
    The date/time template is used when posts are requested by date or time. For example, the pages generated with these slugs:
        http://example.com/blog/2014/
        http://example.com/blog/2014/05/
        http://example.com/blog/2014/05/26/

archive.php (classic theme) or archive.html (block theme)
    The archive template is used when visitors request posts by category, author, or date. Note: this template will be overridden if more specific templates are present like category.php, author.php, and date.php.

search.php (classic theme) or search.html (block theme)
    The search results template is used to display a visitor’s search results.

attachment.php (classic theme) or attachment.html (block theme)
    The attachment template is used when viewing a single attachment like an image, pdf, or other media file.

image.php (classic theme) or image.html (block theme)
    The image attachment template is a more specific version of attachment.php and is used when viewing a single image attachment. If not present, WordPress will use attachment.php instead.

404.php (classic theme) or 404.html (block theme)
    The 404 template is used when WordPress cannot find a post, page, or other content that matches the visitor’s request.

comments.php
    The comments template in classic themes. In block themes, blocks are used instead.





